{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red223\green223\blue223;\red16\green16\blue16;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red223\green223\blue223;\red16\green16\blue16;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89804\c89804\c89804;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7843;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c89804\c89804\c89804;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18820\viewh11840\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I defied my boss' direct order which was to run everything past him before sending anything to clients or the general public. I will be letting him know tomorrow.\cf0 \cb1 \
\
We relined a pipe under a residents property and they signed a form to let us do it. After we did the work we got a camera recording of the completed pipe. The resident asked for a copy as it would cost him $7500 to get it done. We are not obliged to do it, there may be risk that they find something bad was built, my boss may have said no. I thought it fair to provide it and within council's "going the extra mile" mantra.\
\
My boss' trust of me. My reputation may become someone who is a risk. I may get formal corrective action procedures implemented against me.
\f1\b0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \
\
It was better to ask for forgiveness than permission. Doing the right thing for a stranger was better than the bureaucracy of following rules.\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf5 \cb6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 When you paste Claude summaries here, paste only:\
- Status updates (what's live, verified, in progress)\
- Decisions made\
- Next steps and blockers\
- Open questions\
\
Not the practitioner profile. Not journal data. Not passion maps.\
\
\
\
}