{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red223\green223\blue223;\red16\green16\blue16;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89804\c89804\c89804;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh25740\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 ## Manifest Additions\
\
These are architectural constraints and reference entries to be added to the manifest or equivalent architectural reference document.\
\
```\
ARCHITECTURAL CONSTRAINTS (constraints.ts \'97 source of truth)\
\
AC1 \'97 MODEL RELIABILITY BOUNDARIES\
Haiku: Not suitable for multi-step reasoning, passion diagnosis, \
causal chain analysis, or Zone 2 inputs. Maximum reliable token \
output: 500. Retry threshold: 2 before escalating to Sonnet.\
Sonnet: Preferred for all deliberation endpoints, passion diagnosis, \
distress classification, and any input touching Zone 2 domains.\
This constraint exists because KG2 (Haiku reliability boundary) \
was rediscovered across 5 sessions at a cost of 5 sessions. \
Violation cost: multi-session rediscovery cycles.\
\
AC2 \'97 SAFETY SYSTEM LATENCY BUDGET\
The two-stage distress classifier adds ~500ms for borderline inputs. \
This is the accepted and documented latency cost for Zone 2 safety. \
It is not a performance problem to be optimised away. Any proposal \
to reduce this latency by moving safety checks to background \
processing is rejected by default.\
\
AC3 \'97 ZONE 2 CLINICAL ADJACENCY DOMAINS\
The following six domains require Zone 2 enforcement (redirection \
to professional support, not philosophical reflection):\
[To be completed from scope boundary map during Task 5 of \
implementation session]\
Enforcement mechanism for each domain must be verified live before \
P1. Verification status tracked in safety signal audit.\
\
AC4 \'97 INVOCATION TESTING FOR SAFETY FUNCTIONS\
Safety-critical functions require two types of testing:\
(1) Functional test: confirms correct output given input\
(2) Invocation test: confirms the function is called in the \
    execution path\
Both must pass for a safety function to reach verified status. \
Invocation tests use grep or equivalent to confirm calls exist \
in the execution path, not just that the function is defined.\
\
KNOWLEDGE GAPS REGISTER (knowledge-gaps.md \'97 source of truth)\
\
KG1 \'97 [To be populated from extraction findings]\
KG2 \'97 Haiku reliability boundary: Model selection criteria were \
       treated as preferences, not constraints. Each session \
       rediscovered the boundary independently. Resolution: \
       constraints.ts as architectural reference, session opening \
       checkpoint.\
KG3 \'97 Build-to-wire verification: Functions that exist but are \
       never called create false confidence. Resolution: invocation \
       testing as a distinct verification step from functional testing.\
KG4-KG7 \'97 [To be populated from the 7 concepts requiring 3-5 \
            re-explanations in the extraction findings]\
\
EVAL SUITE REQUIREMENTS\
\
ES1 \'97 Zone 2 eval inputs must include Clinton-profile inputs: \
      philodoxia at strong intensity, penthos at strong intensity, \
      aischyne at strong intensity. These represent the highest-risk \
      passion combinations for clinical adjacency.\
ES2 \'97 Eval suite must be run against Zone 2 enforcement mechanisms \
      before any phase transition (P0\uc0\u8594 P1, P1\u8594 P2, etc.).\
ES3 \'97 Eval results are recorded in the safety signal audit with \
      verification status and date.}