{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red223\green223\blue223;\red16\green16\blue16;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89804\c89804\c89804;\cssrgb\c7843\c7843\c7843;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12320\viewh25600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 These are standing rules to be added to the project instructions document. They encode findings that must persist across all future sessions, not just the implementation session.\
\
```\
PROCESS RULES \'97 FROM BUILD KNOWLEDGE EXTRACTION (April 2026)\
\
PR1 \'97 SINGLE ENDPOINT PROOF BEFORE SURFACE ROLLOUT\
Before any new architectural pattern is deployed across multiple \
endpoints, it must be proven on a single endpoint first. A single-\
endpoint proof must reach verified status before rollout begins. \
This rule exists because the Session 7b incident (3-session recovery) \
was caused by skipping this step. Cost of violation: 3+ sessions.\
\
PR2 \'97 BUILD-TO-WIRE VERIFICATION IS IMMEDIATE\
When a function is wired, verification happens in the same session. \
A function that exists but is never called is worse than a function \
that doesn't exist \'97 it creates false confidence. Verification method \
for safety-critical functions: confirm invocation in the execution \
path, not just correct output. Grep for calls, not definitions.\
\
PR3 \'97 SAFETY SYSTEMS ARE SYNCHRONOUS\
No safety-critical function (detectDistress, distress classifier, \
Zone 2 enforcement, redirection logic) may run as a background process \
or fire-and-forget. The safety check result must be complete before \
the response is constructed. The ~500ms latency cost for borderline \
inputs is accepted and non-negotiable.\
\
PR4 \'97 MODEL SELECTION IS A CONSTRAINT, NOT A PREFERENCE\
Model selection criteria are documented in constraints.ts and treated \
as architectural constraints. Before any new endpoint is designed, \
model selection must be confirmed against constraints.ts. Model \
selection is a session opening checkpoint, not a mid-session discovery.\
\
PR5 \'97 KNOWLEDGE GAP CARRY-FORWARD\
Any concept requiring re-explanation in a session is flagged in the \
handoff note with a cumulative count. At 3 re-explanations, a \
documentation task is created in knowledge-gaps.md. The session \
opening protocol includes: check knowledge-gaps.md for concepts \
relevant to today's work.\
\
PR6 \'97 SAFETY-CRITICAL CHANGES ARE ALWAYS CRITICAL RISK\
Any change touching detectDistress, the distress classifier, Zone 2 \
enforcement, or redirection logic is classified as Critical regardless \
of apparent scope. Full Critical Change Protocol applies: what changes, \
what breaks, rollback plan, verification step, explicit approval.\
\
PR7 \'97 DECISIONS NOT MADE ARE DOCUMENTED\
When a decision is explicitly deferred, the reasoning is recorded in \
the decision log with: what was considered, why it was deferred, what \
condition would trigger revisiting it. Deferred decisions are as \
significant as adopted ones.\
```}