{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10960\viewh21160\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 1 - Live in the present\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Take a few moments to take stock of your life right now. First, center yourself. Take in the sights, sounds, and smells around you. Observe your breath and the sensations in your body. Now spend a few minutes writing about this moment.\
Today is a lazy Sunday. Chores were done yesterday so we have time on our hands today. The family explored a culture not seen for years experiencing the sound & sights & tastes of the market. Now home, an cosy From the rain outside the glare is making me sleepy like the cat is. Occasional thoughts distract my reading, things and reactions I had to them that could\'92ve been handled with measured actions. Their outcome would be the same yet a positive reflection would have been had by all. Letting go of this with words is a good start. Embrace re-reading when distraction hits again is the goal.\
\
When you are done with your mindful meditation, try to let go of all thoughts, feelings, and judgment. Simply breathe and notice things. Record your impressions below. Were you able to dismiss intrusive thoughts and keep your focus solely on physical sensations? What kept intruding on your thoughts?\
I was able to,\
\'d7 Back Pain \'96 Moved and removed shorts\
\'d7 Daydreaming being stoic..\
\'d7 Questioned if doing it right\
\'d7 Changed way I was breathing\
\'d7 Dismissed them by listening to road outside, distant planes, birds, air conditioner vent\
\
When practicing mindfulness, you want to solely notice and release thoughts. Writing about what those thoughts were later can help you understand what you need to release. What can you do to eliminate negative and distracting thoughts?\
\'d7 Call them out when they happen\
\'d7 Declare to write about that one later and release it now\
\'d7 When writing later\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  dig into the details\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  lay out both sides\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  ID what is out of my control\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Accept imperfection.\
\
What are some things you are currently giving too much energy and time to that do not better your life? How would you like to change that? What would you eliminate?\
Giving too much time/energy to\
\'d7 Reputation\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Work ethic (things being done right)\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Not being respected/listened to\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Wanting everyone to like me\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Not wanting any enemies\
\'d7 Creative Failures\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Dwelling on the lack of impact my art has had, song, screenplay etc\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Not having innovated anything meaningful\
\'d7 Holding onto past\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  not letting go of hobby\'92s from a past era in life\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  Having things take up my space that aren\'92t being used.\
\'d7 Have I done my job as a parent,\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  failed to prepare them for resilience required\

\f2 \uc0\u8594 
\f1  failed to provide opportunities\
\
If you were limited to only five activities per day (aside from basics like sleeping and eating), what would you do? Make a list below ordered by their importance. Next to each item, explain why it is important to you and what greater goal it helps you to accomplish.\
Providing (work)\
\'96 earning provides security to kids upbringing & my wife & my retirement\
\'96 provides for opportunities that arise\
\'96 can occasionally spoil myself & others\
Hanging out \
\'96 Family time with kids & wife\
\'96 Build memories & lasting connections\
\'96 Confirms opportunities/threats\
Create \
\'96 writing a song or play music\
\'96 Turns thoughts/ideas/troubles into art\
\'96 No greater goal to speak of.\
Learn \
\'96 listen to podcasts and develop opinions\
\'96 share insights or interesting discussion with family/mates\
\'96 Goal to build wisdom & provoke critical thought\
Laugh \
\'96 Find humour in the serious to lessen it.\
\'96 To find the commonality we have thru fun.\
\'96 Remind them that its ok to be the clown and to not take yourself or life to seriously\
\
How can you incorporate reflection into your daily Stoic practice?\
\'d7 Early in day reflect on health & mood and adjust reactions to suit.\
\'d7 When feeling mistreated in any way, take pause and note it for curiously later.\
\'d7 Check-in with kids when I get home even if they\'92re up when I arrive.\
\'d7 Note discussion points on phone for later\
\'d7 Screenshot funny things for sharing later\
\'d7 Use time on Bus to create.\
\'d7 Use working from home to create\
\'d7 Embrace tasks and the learning & Action to complete them\
\'d7 End of Day survey noting if I managed 5 from 5 of the activities that day.\
\'d7 Plan if something (goal) needs to be reached and when.\
\
What did you do today that helped you to achieve a more virtuous life? What did you do today that was not a good use of your time?\
\'d7 Pursued wisdom and growth doing this book\
\'d7 Cooked eggs & veggies to provide for family\
\'d7 Resisted urge to break diet.\
\
How do your fears and worries about the future distract you from your focus in the present?\
\'d7 Doom scrolling and youtube financial meltdown videos do not lead to tangible actions to prepare for future events.\
\'d7 Fear of a messy accident at work prevented me from going to work.\
\'d7 fear of creative failure prevented return from music\
\
What do you think you could achieve if you were able to centre yourself in the now instead of allowing your fears to dominate your thoughts?\
\'d7 Up and at them, get on with it positivity\
\'d7 Contentment having learned something and having ticked something off my list\
\'d7 Today I could have\
\'96 Put records up for sale\
\'96 Finished sanding for car\
\
\
\
\
\
\
}