{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19080\viewh22200\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 11 - Be content\
\
Does your use of social media contribute to fear of missing out? What\'92s stopping you from changing your relationship towards it.\
\
Reduce source of negative emotions. Will have to be considered about this, if I quit my job because it was a source of negative emotions used I wouldn\'92t have discovered root cause and reframed/pivoted my attitude or can you now would have regretted abandoning team. Reducing source can be identifying guilty pleasures and snapping out of them (like I have with daydreaming). By a mindset of pursuit of knowledge the many sane social/digital source can delivering meaningful information and virtuous interests and opportunities. When nature is an alternative use it as your device and \'91eat\'92 the raw whole food of information directly from the only truthful source.\
\
\
What circumstances or people in your life are difficult for you to accept? What can you do to co-exist with the discomfort and achieve contentment. \
\
Circumstance difficult to accept is my bad back and that it cost me freedom, sports, masculinity, youth. New boss was difficult to accept. To co-exist with new boss I sought counsel from a wise brother who helped me reframe, let go and embrace being of service to the boss as part of the team. Contentment with my back will come once i have done all i can to improve the situation. Lose weight, exercise, become a man I have never been. As i improve, lowering the roadblocks that my back imposed on my life. Difficult to accept that a loved one may not like me anymore, resents that I am not there for them through tough times. I can block this out with belief that they one day will not resent me.\
\
\
Being content in the moment doesn\'92t mean forgetting about the future entirely.  How do you balance your present pleasures with your journey toward living a more virtuous life? \
\
Sunbaking is a nice pleasure in nature but if you indulged all day your future health, and goals would suffer. If you are fully appreciating the pleasure with all your attention in the moment then you can savour it quickly without over indulging. Find that sweet spot then apply your attention to the next virtuous goal until \ul that\ulnone  sweet spot is reached or interrupted by life obstacles or opportunities. Veer back on to the path of goals with the natural flow of circumstance. 
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mindfulness means that you won\'92t miss out on savouring what else is available by overindulging another. A tree is constant swaying in a gentle breeze while providing for whatever may need a home with a foundation of strength that also is comfortable jostling in a storm or seeking nourishment from the earth as its roots also provide strength.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Contentment can\'92t be achieved unless we stop comparing ourselves to others but it can be hard to do. How can you gain control of this emotion? \
\
Coveting is imagining the pleasure they must feel from what they have, the attention they must get, the opportunities, the adoration, the benefits which implies that you are a victim because you miss out on those hard to get things that comes easily to them It is a sign that not enough attention has been paid to the root cause of the success the effort that can be learned from by pivoting envy to curiosity. This will keep thoughts realistic in both the sacrifice and benefits and how that applies to you path while appreciating what pleasure you can take from being happy for them. Breaking down the virtues they employed to achieve what they have is the \ul real\ulnone  gift of \ul their\ulnone  success.\
\
\
What do you need to be happy and content? \
\
The right mindset, focused on virtues:\
Courage - Take action\
Justice - Do the right thing\
Temperance - Do it consistently\
Wisdom - Calculated with resources available\
\
\
\
How can you free yourself from the expectations of others so that you can live a life that is virtuous and dutiful, but free?\
\
Freedom is finding \'93belief\'94 (which is especially difficult for someone who has only ever believed in \'93people\'94 some of which let me down) that there is no good or bad in nature just true or false everything else is just my or their perspective of things which cannot be trusted. Act not on the perceptions but on the true/false that is the root cause contributing to their perception. You will exceed their expectations and yours. Be flexible enough to revise your true/false assumptions with new data specific to the exact moment nature is presenting you at the time. Nothing is ever locked in, it is all a starting point to relate to when applying it to suit that instant.\
\
\
Examine what you do \'93for show\'94 or to impress others. What would happen if you let go of this desire to impress and focused instead on what you need to make yourself happy? How would things be different?\
\
My desire to \'91impress\'92 has come from cars and rockstar fantasy not typically from clothes or appearance but from respect or adoration appreciation for my art or resourcefulness. The car thing has been about best bang-for-buck not modicifation expression (showing off resourcefulness) rather from expression of wealth. Rockstar thing is more about ideas that are presented creatively with humour, or wordplay/poetry/musically and the undeniable connection that has made with an audience. Both are an fantasy motivation and has been an outlet for creative or ingenuity callings that I realised need to be motivated for my own benefit not for the fantasy. Appreciation from others will neither motivate nor discourage me.\
\
\
What do you have now that you once craved in the past? How can you learn to be satisfied with it instead of constantly wanting more? \
\
Love. Respect. Validation. Letting go of getting the exact amount of those things in the exact way at the exact time because it never happens and I don\'92t need it. When attentive in the moment, acting on virtuous motivation instead keep ambition internal and realistic instead of external and unrealistic which burns endless energy which ignores other things. Letting go of the need for \'93proof of love\'94 or respect is embracing that i don\'92t need or am motivated by those external things that are out of my control and if internally motivated when do come they won\'92t mean anything. But if they are taken away then that won\'92t mean anything either.\
\
\
Instead of always trying to acquire more and different things, how can you change your mindset so that what you have now is exactly enough? \
\
I will need to revisit some of what I have to make full use of and be content with what remains. Music is best when what sounds are their have been very calculated and curated to be a mix of noise and gaps between of equal value, and too much is a cluttered mix instead of being sparsely composed to appreciate every nuance. Things and pleasures are the same, they need to be culled down to small morsels of savoury and shareable treats. This will minimise waste and feed/be appreciated by the most, including myself. Instead of the search for more, the attention to resourcefulness of what is present is what will bring contentment.\
\
\
What did you learn from the experience of thinking the grass was greener elsewhere? \
\
Own his own business - Took on much greater responsibility, cost time away from kids, cost marriage, cost friendships. Inherit wealth - Pre-occupied with keeping/protecting it, never fully embraced a shared life with partners who eventually left. Does what he wants - has life without meaning and growth and looks tragic in old age. \
\
\
\
}