{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18240\viewh24440\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 12 - Be Responsible to others\
\
What sense of responsibility do you have toward others in your community? To the world? How do you translate that into action? \
\
I feel responsible to the environment to the skin club, to the people of Brisbane for my job. To friends who were there for me. I don\'92t yet feel any responsibility to my neighbourhood besides not impacting negatively on it. I feel a little obligated to be grateful for the peace and convenience and comfort my community provides. Still searching for a meaningful (and not self-beneficial) contribution that I can make from the skills I have, I will stay alert to opportunities while in the meantime I will look to cull & donate so that volunteering belongings is a start towards eventually volunteering time or effort to community causes.\
\
\
How do you seek justice in the world while maintaining your Stoic virtues? \
\
\'95  Being frugal with the world\'92s resources.\
\'95  Practice maintaining attention in the moment at retaining the natural flow of my surroundings, not offering but making myself available should someone call upon me for support.\
\'95  Don\'92t ignore cries for help.\
\'95  Don\'92t presume one way or another.\
\'95  Don\'92t be a stickler to send a message or teach a lesson; rather instead contribute and hope they conclude the message or follow my example.\
\'95  Self-examine what is currently within my power that I might not realise or take for granted & think about if it can be shared or translated to empower others in need.\
\
\
The Stoics believed that we must be intentional about our duty to others not an after thought. What do you have to offer others of your own character and virtue: how can you intentionally offer it?\
\
\'95  Wisdom \'97 Offer path of knowledge that I\'92ve found to others for consideration and shared experience.\
\'95  Courage \'97 To take action and pivot to a new way of life that is at odds to previous ethos.\
\'95  Temperance \'97 Offer to the team at work my consistency to be with them through process & location change.\
\'95  Justice \'97 Make an intentional effort to be fair by being discerning in what/if I say something and aware of my direct/indirect impact on others.\
I don\'92t necessarily have to be proactive but being considerate of others begins with paying attention to others which provides awareness and ideas of how I can best be of service to them.\
\
\
Stoicism encourages us to be humble. But that doesn\'92t mean insignificant. What do you think you can do to make a significant contribution to the world? \
\
If every action is motivated by the internal courage, wisdom, temperance, and justice, then the outcomes strive towards truth which may have initial positive or negative passions as a result from them but eventually the resulting "truth" will reveal those passions underlying the root cause of truth, that is a significant contribution which is free from external motivations. Significance is never going to be perceived by everybody as either positive or negative so it has nothing to do with good or bad. Significance can only be derived from truth or false, which can each be perceived as good or bad but significance derived from truth contributes to reality.\
\
\
\
How does service for others allow you to build and demonstrate your character?\
\
The building of my character is for my own internal benefit. Demonstrating to myself that I can endure / grow / refrain / persist is proof that I am acting toward my inner purpose.\
Whether these demands are applied to my goals or others goals does not matter so when interrupted with the opportunity to apply to others then that is the way fate permitted that day. The overall good is better served so the same actions are greater value if it is what the moment needs. \
It matters not who immediately benefits and the more people embrace this then the overall community will be lifted.\
\
\
\
What do you believe is your life\'92s purpose?\
To believe, when forever I wouldn\'92t, in myself and my inner approach to life. I stumbled upon Stoic principles from my own (upon examination) and from others, but lacked the practice or consistency.\
My purpose is to break a lifetime habit of procrastination and overthinking by evolving Stoic principles and be of service to those around me.\
This will become a lifelong discipline which will take belief, two things I lacked till now. There will never be an end to this as it is a daily practice of consideration to make it become as natural as breathing. Like breathing I will not take it for granted and if done with determination will result in calmness and contentment.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Commit yourself to at least three acts of service this month. After you have offered yourself in service, how did you feel? Use the space below to reflect on how serving others without any intent for personal gain helped you on your path toward a virtuous life.\
I witnessed the benefit to others that resulted from me showing restraint. Paying more close attention to the needs of others has let me appreciate their joy and benefits. I have been appreciated for my service to the boss and my work and returning to a \'93whatever the team needs of me\'94 attitude. This has led to less stress, more fulfilling work experience. Returned a trolley that wasn\'92t mine. It felt like the actions of a hive mind and that it could become instinctive.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Ultimately, the Stoics believed that we have a duty to both ourselves and to others to be the best person we can be. Use this space to commit to writing your vision of the best version of yourself that you can be in this world.\
\
Best version of myself - "Energised"\
- lean, capable, physically well pain-free\
- Mentally resilient, positive, flexible\
- Curious and consistent search for truth\
- Straight Teeth, clear skin, sight, sound\
- Passions restrained, savoured, with no over-indulgence, no impact on others\
- Appreciation of nature, weather, Plants, animals. \
- Appreciation for others, becoming less of a hermit and more part of the rest.\
- Reaches out, not second-guessing whether I should or not, going places, joining in, being social.\
- Having people over, starting small, then more\
- Doing more at home, more than putting in, getting it done, keeping on top.\
- Ready for retirement, ready to travel open to new experiences, sharing the love. \
\
\
}