{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{circle\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u9702 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11620\viewh24320\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 2 - Embrace Difficulty\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Think about which aspects of a current difficult situation are in your control and which are not. Use the space below to analyze a situation that\'92s currently causing you stress and pain. How might you shift your perspective so that you can change your reaction to it?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Computers + procedures at work
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl1\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Impatient, it is taking forever\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Illogical, doesn\'92t have to be this way\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Tarnishing, my reputation is at stake\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Disappointing \'96 support is lacking/planning\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Wasteful \'96 My time is more precious\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Failure \'96 may cause me to fail\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Scrutiny \'96 places my work in question\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Roadblocks \'96 when I think there\'92s progress\
\ls1\ilvl1\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	
\f3 \uc0\u9702 
\f1 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Out of date \'96 so what else is out of date\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Change Perspective
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Some have answered the call and been supportive & grateful for my appreciation\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Weight off shoulders\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Will be most familiar in future event\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Boss will appreciate effort\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What people think of me will have no impact on my things I value.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 What behaviours have you adopted to avoid suffering or emotional pain? What do you think you have given up in order to protect yourself? What opportunities might you have missed?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Avoid back pain \'96 no tennis, no weightlifting, no bike riding (missed competition, sociability)\
Avoid calling relatives in case they are cross with me (missed connection, support)\
Avoid sharing opinions (both professional and personal) in case they are ignored or rejected\
Avoided inviting people over due to need to prepare house and fear of judgment from them (missed connection)\
Procrastination of chores because they are built up too much\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If you lived more in the present moment and enjoyed yourself without projecting into the future, what might happen? How would you be a different person if you looked ahead with apatheia, or lack of fear or excessive desire?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I would start the first task of the chore or planning and obtaining the materials for a task. Enjoy the process of completing tasks.\
Wouldn\'92t be offended by what I felt I was entitled to (respect) or where it may lead if left unchecked.\
Wouldn\'92t feel like every moment had to be a learning experience for the future to prevent them from making mistakes.\
Nothing disastrous could happen if nothing needed to be said or actioned in that moment. Time & reflection may reveal a better response or message be better received.\
Demonstrated capable of changing opinion & apply critical thought.\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Marcus Aurelius: \'93The impediment to action advances action. What stands in the way becomes the way.\'94 What does that expression mean to you? Have you ever turned an obstacle into a new direction?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Every time you have to learn something before doing a task you have a new capability and opportunities to apply elsewhere. Apply what you can do to focus on what you can\'92t do.\
The learning can be the source of motivation to complete the activity.\
To get a job I needed a particular degree which led to a qualification and career that otherwise would not have. Hernia led to obstacle that I had to lose weight for surgery.\
New boss that was uncooperative, which forced a re-think to motivation and reactions to cope with then excel, discontent became content which then became satisfied.\
\
\
Use the space below to reframe some of the difficulties you\'92ve had as opportunities for growth, learning experiences, and positive experiences that have made you stronger.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Challenges - Learnings & Opportunities
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
New Boss - Acceptance/Appreciation\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Not heard - Not rely on validation\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Going overseas - Become healthy\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Sell cars - Let go of past\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Coeliac Disease - Watch what I eat\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lose weight - Stop drinking\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Dumped by girlfriend - Become more attentive\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Friend Dying - Appreciate what I have\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Blood Pressure - Lessen Stress\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Imposing on people - Re-connect\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Father Hospitalised - Proved capable\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 \
The stoics referred to a place inside ourselves called the \'93inner citadel.\'94 This is our retreat and the locus of our strength. It\'92s a place where our distress and obstacles can\'92t reach us. What can you do to build an inner citadel that you can retreat to whatever you need to tap on your own resources.
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recognise in the moment to pause\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Use a breath or mantra to draw upon to trigger engaging the inner strength\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Default to patience and curiously when faced with adversity\
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Fortitude in adversity will draw admiration whether you win/lose, proud/ashamed, clever/dumb\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Has your anticipation of the future difficulty of a situation or pursuit ever stopped you from doing something? Consider some of the ways that you can stop projecting future outcomes so that they don\'92t prevent you from doing something in the present.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Follow the initial impulse before there is a chance to assess the implications.\
When falling into daydreaming/overthinking about future, recognise and stop myself.\
Worse case scenario is irrelevant in the moment. Only consider this when actually conducting planning.\
Address immediate actions only.\
Don\'92t seek advice before starting.\
Embrace imperfection.\
Assume no-one will notice (good or bad) \
Do it for the act of it an it doesn\'92t matter if the outcome is a waste of time.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
In what ways do you think that your lack of control over your thoughts and emotions is causing difficulty in your life?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Daydreaming horrible events or accidents of loved ones causes stress, fear, and questioning of myself.\
Cynicism about past disappointments soil potential now experiences before they have a chance to be fulfilled.\
Pre-empting what someone may confront me about and arguing against it before it happens. It causes me to pre-judge people and their reactions unfairly and be unnecessarily defensive.\
Thoughts of perceived disrespect make me feel worthless for several days.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
What are you doing on a regular basis to increase your virtue? How can you do more?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Acknowledge where something I did/said may have been unfair by putting myself in their shoes. Moving on.\
Challenge myself to start something I have been putting off.\
Look for opportunities to be in service to my team and doing tasks with pride instead of begrudgingly.\
Consistently keeping with diet rules.\
Everyday positivity.\
Look for opportunities to practice discretion. Not say that thought.\
Be resourceful by delegating where possible to team members.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}