{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18080\viewh23960\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 6 - Master of thoughts\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What do you currently give your attention to that you know is outside of your control? Have you ever tried to stop thinking about it and let it go? What happens?\
People's respect for me / opinion of me.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I have tried to talk myself out of caring about it by saying I don't.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
I have tried to be 'edgy' to demonstrate how I don't care about their opinion \'97 "I'll say it anyway".\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
As I get older I notice especially with my kids that I feel entitled, having put the time in to get a certain level of respect.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Curiousity instead when disappointed by lack of acknowledgement has helped me realise that it is something I cant control but is also something that I take more personally than they ever intended and that ignorance/obliviousness is not malicious. Selfishness is not about you it is where they are at so be curious why.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Does the idea of relinquishing control of all but your own thoughts and feelings make you feel weaker or stronger? Can you imagine feeling liberated if the only thing you needed to control was your own responses to life and the people around you?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 It would be a large saver of energy and would make for more focus on the task at hand.\
I would become less manipulative in that action & steps that I may take to influence what is out of my control would be gone. This would give me needed to pursue betterment.\
Observing with curiosity and learning especially if I would\'92ve never witnessed the original outcome.\
Secret will be to relinquish without malice and observe with curiosity and positivity. Not looking at it as a failure to not step in if you did turn out to be right.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Do you spend a lot of time judging people and circumstances? What happens when you change your thinking to a less judgmental approach? Can you think of a time when you withheld judgment? What was the outcome?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Spend time judging peoples spending to reiterate how good wife & I have been to be frugal.\
A less judgmental approach will ensure we remain focussed, ensure we don\'92t measure ourselves against a poor example and ensure we don\'92t give ourselves an excuse to fail less than they did. We can appreciate the positive internal benefits that our efforts/persistence has brought us to make the most of them and motivate continuing.\
I have withheld verbalising judgment a lot but only recently I withheld actual judgment when someone said \'91dear\'92 to me about a thing that turned out to be wrong. Instead of judging her to be deliberately malicious to shame me publicly I controlled my feelings from being hurt and refrained from hurting her feelings back. Renewed years of habit and pride in crushing people verbally which doesn\'92t align with my core values.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
We gain better control of our lives when we stop blaming others. What are some of the things that you\'92ve blamed others or life\'92s circumstances for that you can let go of in order to live a more Stoic life?\
My Mother for instilling an overly cautious \'91consider worst case first\'92 attitude in me. I am in control of how I consider things.\
Parents \'97 for being picky making me finish everything on my plate. I am in control of how much/what I consume if I am full.\
Boss \'97 For making me feel useless, unproductive, a bully, a burden to the team. Embracing change even if not for the better has helped me appreciate the undertaking of tasks without agreeing with them or needing them to be purposeful. Letting go of how this used to be done or how much better it used to be has had no direct impact on me, it doesn\'92t affect my profits. Committing to a sense of duty in service to a leader, has opened my mind to possibilities.\
\
The need to take charge of others or circumstances outside of our control often stems from fear. What do you think you are really afraid of? How do you think you can overcome that fear?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Fear of letting people down \'97 Parents, wife, kids, workmates, myself.\
Overcome by realising that my advice to take charge disempowers others to do their part in their way, removing their agency, may be more efficient but at what cost to morale or long term relationships or possible new innovations.\
Overcome by empowering those around me in a facilitation role in service to them while remaining focussed on my reaction to events/others. Embrace the joy of seeing others take charge to get something done their way. Overcome fear of letting people down by embracing that i am not going to be perfect and they don\'92t expect me to be.\
Not supposed to \'91provide\'92 everything. There is a middle ground. Not a competition to be better than parents or brother at it (at not letting people down)\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
What external events or circumstances have you allowed to disturb your inner peace today? How can you adopt a more Stoic mindset towards them?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Lost my earbud charger (overreacted)\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Consider what inner impact this has\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Consider what other things exacerbated\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Take positive steps to address root cause of failure to control this example ie More sleep, back mood check\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Embrace the silliness of frustrating situation\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Let go / make good with what my poor reaction caused\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Embrace discomfort / resilience of going without it as a challenge\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Ego drives us to crave external validation. That can lead to us feeling like we need to control others\'92 opinions of us. How does desiring credit or praise from others disturb your mind? How do you let go of that need and judge yourself only by your internal standards?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Desiring credit/praise leads to assumption of failure when it is not received to the expected amount. Feel like I wasted my time, not appreciated, not respected, not admired, have no value, invisible.\
Let go by ensuring my endeavours are selected based on internal goals not to please an external party or passion.\
Treat praise the same way as criticism with external politeness but internally zero good or harm to me.\
It is only from deriving zero internal motivation from external praise that I can derive zero dismotivation from criticism.\
Internal standards and goals are always refined to better plan tasks to approach internal outcomes based on all external learnings equally. No motivation is required externally.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Being free of judgment doesn\'92t mean being completely without feeling. The Stoics believed that you should enjoy the beauty and even fun of life. How do you strike a balance between virtue and self-improvement and fun in your life?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Embrace the \'91mean value\'92 (not the most) and being the right amount (Quality)\
The inner goal is the right amount of each virtue at any time by aiming for the right amount at any moment while heading toward longer goal \'91right\'92 amounts.\
Right amount of knowledge seeking, tenacity, fairness, & courage will lead to extracting the most fun and beauty especially if I can remain in the moment & not let it go unnoticed.\
In the moment right amount allows for the flow (currents) with nature/life while inner goals target for longer overall right amounts steering that malleable ship through the turbulent currents in the right direction.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Do you feel at peace with your own thoughts? With your own company? Use the space below to reflect on how your own peace when you allow yourself to let go of judgment, not only of others, but of yourself.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Getting at peace with own thoughts/ company\
Have moments of spiralling where my imagination runs away.\
I appreciate/relish when I have the house to myself, I get things done, get on a roll, do what is in front of me, efficient and rewarding picking off low hanging fruit.\
Actual time with no stimuli (podcast/write/music/tv) in background is rare. When I do (eg. meditate) I have thoughts of doubt and must reset with breathing & observation.\
Opportunity to include meditation from my bed when waking earlier and to leave my earbuds off when walking through nature.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
You might have heard the expression \'93Comparison is the thief of joy.\'94 While it\'92s not a Stoic expression, it does reflect a Stoic mindset. How can you stop comparing yourself to others? What do you think you would gain if you did?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 By not comparing the way people do things to my way it allows me to appreciate how capable they are, what things they do differently and provide encouragement not criticism.\
By not comparing their looks to mine I get closer to appreciating what I was born with.\
By instead going with the flow I may be naturally inspired or retracted in my reactions to meet the uncontrolled externals.\
Imagine with your eyes closed riding side-car on a motorbike as the bike takes the corner you lean into the corner with effort to best get through it. Now imagine you are floating on a leaf down a stream you lean in out left & right to steer it but with flexibility to kick back the opposite way if a current pulls you suddenly or you hit an obstruction. The perfect leaning is the \'93mean\'94 virtues, they are flexible to instances.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Are your goals rational? (Possessing the divine ordering principle of the cosmos. To be is to align yourself to the universal reason - nature) What about your responses to the current state of your life? If not, what can you do to set them on a Stoic path?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Current Goals
\f1\b0  \'96 Pay house off, lose weight, improve reaction to things, work through \'91list of put off\'92 things, learn music.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Paying house off is \'91providing\'92 need to be tenacious but not let it control over.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Lose weight, is healthy \'91physically\'92 so long as it doesn\'92t upset me mentally. (Combine with food from nature & exercise often opportunity to master my desires).\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Reaction to things is working through journal, need to keep findings to myself, materialise through action & practise.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}Doing my \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'91Put off\'92 things will grant freedom physically and mentally to new opportunities. Need to take small steps to not be discouraged.\
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Include in list the means of expression and the training/practise time required to be more creative.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Think about a current challenge in your life. How can you reframe it as an opportunity to practice a Stoic mindset? Use the space below to write about it.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Indulgence \'97 opportunity to master desires\
Pain \'97 opportunity to challenge by not letting it affect me/others through my mood.\
Procrastination \'97 opportunity to moderate couch time and replace it with growth.\
Tiredness \'97 Opportunity to follow natural start/end times of the day and make use of quiet time alone in mornings.\
Responsibility \'97 opportunity to unburden external need for validation or to control what is driven by outside forces and instead reacts with consideration/curiosity to threats. As children become adults embrace the need for them to fend for themselves and stand on their own \'97 in their own way.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\
\
}