{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15240\viewh24920\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 7 - Master your Feelings\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
We know that other people\'92s behavior is not something that we can control. Yet it is most frequently the thing that causes us to react, to be disturbed, and to compromise our serenity. What are some ways that you can stop responding to other people\'92s behavior as if you had control over it?\
\'d7 Avoid the temptation to chime in, whether to set them straight (negative) or steer them gently (positive) when you think they are wrong.\
\'d7 Observe, let it play out, learn from the result & keep that to yourself also.\
Don't feel good if you were right, bad for not stepping in, grateful for kept your mouth shut. Feel nothing except to adjust internal goals & task to consider learnings for threats or opportunities to action. Appreciate the result in the moment for what is beautiful or interesting or character building to be ready task to be best you can serve them. Reflect later the merits of that way and if you can refine/improve yourself by being flexible in your way.\
\
Does being angry make you feel out of control or in control? Does it feel like a strength or a weakness? How can you make peacefulness a strength?\
\'d7 Anger makes me feel like I\'92m at least doing something, or at least witnesses know I don\'92t agree.\
\'d7 It never feels like something I am ever prepared to escalate to violence which makes it a weakness as it is showing your cards to your opponent.\
\'d7 Peacefulness (non-reaction) takes their power away and keeps the element of surprise should you need to escalate as it allows you to better position yourself to attack/defend should they lose control.\
\'d7 Peacefulness physically keep heart rate lower to have that advantage also.\
\'d7 Mediation and protective instincts to witnesses will be perceived as professional not as being a coward.\
\'d7 Less chance of actually being a coward if you don\'92t get angry.\
\
By striving for apatheia (a state of being free from destructive passions like fear, anger, envy, grief, which are irrational judgements), one can achieve harmony with nature: a state of rationality (judgements aligned with nature) and logic, undisturbed by the passions of the mind that cause suffering. What can you do today in the service of apatheia\'97practicing mindful meditation, taking a few moments for reflection and grounding, or journaling? Use the space below to reflect on your progress toward achieving a higher level of apatheia.\
\'d7 Morning journalling outside is reflecting on myself, the day, nature, mindful of the needs of the cat.\
\'d7 I am still going to need practice/testing/reflection ongoing to reverse the impulsive reaction that is ingrained.\
\'d7 Yesterday my reaction for teammates to \'93suck it up\'94 when criticised for interrupting morning tea with important meeting was an uncontrolled response to the imposition. To declare that it wasn\'92t my fault there were no spots in the diary. And the hit to my pride that they didn\'92t feel it was worthy of a few minutes of their time.\
\
Think about a time when you wish you\'92d reacted differently to an emotionally upsetting situation. With what you now know about Stoic philosophy, what do you think you could have done differently? How would it have affected the outcome?\
\'d7 Shouting at the kids when they refused to co-operate with me and themself to complete tasks. Shouting expressed my disgust at their behaviour, disappointment, dismissed them as being worthless, anger at being disrespected, insult that they are dumb, can\'92t follow instruction, overthink things, provide unwanted opinions etc. It led to a follow-up apology but they will always remember how I made them feel.\
\'d7 I felt bad so I made them feel bad.\
\'d7 Task never got done, poor leadership.\
Recently I coaxed the kids through similar tasks requiring co-operation and responded to a tantrum behaviour with encouragement which got the job done. Good result.\
\
The Stoics believed that identifying the root cause of something that\'92s causing emotional distress could lead one to develop a more rational response to it. Think of an issue that\'92s been troubling you. Use the space below to explore what the root cause might be.\
\'d7 Issue troubling me \'97 that I wasn\'92t there for my cousin during a time of crisis.\
\'d7 The root cause for my feeling of failure is that I had been there for her in the past. This leads to an expectation that I should be there for her always. Key difference in the past is that she \'93asked for help.\'94\
\'d7 Another root cause for not reaching out is the default assumption that I may mess things up and are not qualified to help and could say something wrong. Could I listen more and keep my opinions to myself. Can be there to listen, not fix problem, contact without anything to offer like help. Could be braver to enter that awkward situation with no planned help just to be there. I now have to control my passion at being offended by her dismissing of me.\
\
Once you have identified the root cause of a troubling emotion, you have knowledge that will help you to let go of your passion or the disturbance around it. Looking at the source you identified, how could you respond to it in a rational rather than emotional way?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Passion
\f1\b0  \'97 The need to feel like the good guy, responsible for my cousins.\
A more rational response would have been to reach out earlier despite having nothing to offer.\
\'97 Respond to what she said as being understandable from her perspective and that her perspective may have a jaded view of the world given what she has lost.\

\f2\b Source
\f1\b0  \'97 Betrayal \'97 being robbed by close friend.\
I responded as a victim, took it personally, felt worthless, felt unworthy of anyone else to be a close friend stupid, disappointed with myself, sorry I let others down and that they were affected by my misplaced trust. It wasn\'92t personal, addictions override decency and trick the brain into survival mode, they were doing it for survival and could block out their impact on others.\
\
If we can speak without undue emotion, our messages and intention can be more clearly heard. What are some things you have tried that makes your speech more rational and less emotional? Can you see a difference in the outcome when you adopt a less emotional response for communication?\
I have made it less emotional but not enough, the shouting may be less but the vitriolic intent is just as strong. I can now clearly deliver emotional response not clearly deliver rational response. It is only when I am free from passion that I can see the root of the rational response then determine a strategic way to deliver it which may be to not respond at all at that time and to instead wait until the recipient is more receptive.\
Determining the rational response can be happening with patience inside while remaining mindful in the moment expressing that they are being heard. Multitasking while mindful is a balance that ensures only what has to be actioned in the moment is while preserving enough to know when to commence action of response.\
\
\
\
}