{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16600\viewh24920\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 7 - Live in gratitude\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
What are you grateful for now in your life? Use the space below to reflect.\
Family harmony, work harmony, safety, health, beauty, teamwork, letting go of past, relaxing vacation, weather wont harm, wild animals wont harm, can appreciate beauty of nature. Purpose and a means to enact it. Work has paid off. Mistakes haven't been too costly. Avoided life traps or escaped without permanent injury.\
\
The Stoics believed that nature contained the divine, therefore it was perfect. Spending time in nature and being in harmony with it was essential for them. \
Nature provides lettuce & cucumber at the moment but is all the food we eat, our place to live, medicine, entertainment, shelter, air we breathe, water we drink, wind to cool us, shade to comfort, energy from sun, fuel, fire to cook and transport.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 How do you express your gratitude for nature? Use the space below.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 I guess if a lot of the above involve the consuming of nature then we have to ensure the byproducts (our waste) is properly utilised back into the cycle of nature.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Recycling\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Avoiding unnecessary waste\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Donate or dispose/purchase re-usable goods do not. Take/use recycle anything and resist luxury.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\partightenfactor0

\f2\b\fs28 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 To approach life with purpose and gratitude allows us to strengthen all of our virtues. How does gratitude give you more knowledge, courage, and temperance, and help you to better pursue justice?\
Reflection of achievements allows appreciation for having survived before without them and to make best use of them without becoming reliant on them. Fresh look and gratitude is a change to observe, learning from the journey to get here, identify what opportunities this now opens up, what discipline it took to get here, and that is required now to aim for greater milestone. A frank view of the traits that were unjust or harmed others in pursuit of the goal and will present opportunities to make good with people or nature that was impacted.\
\
We must be grateful for all life brings us: the good and the challenging. How is avoiding discomfort preventing you from becoming wiser and more virtuous? What would a more rational approach to discomfort look like?\
Not wise if only understanding theory of task and not experiencing the discomfort of doing the task. To be at one with nature you have to endure the changing climate physically and emotionally along with the rest of nature that has no control over it. The irrational perception amplifies how good or bad we think something may be so do not rely on it to motivate and don't let it affect or dis-motivate you. Gratitude and reflection on the finer things in life reinforce how quality is more valuable than quantity and that you only need a small amount of luxury to fully appreciate it and not become soft or dependent on it.\
\
\
Knowing that life is temporary gives us a renewed appreciation for it. How are you working toward making the most of each day?\
Will study (AI) step to take to control my binge-like traits. Understanding and practising self control will open up options for experiences that are available. Letting go will free up energy and making a plan/schedule will begin the steps required. Aim big long term, I can improve weight, back pain, sleep and potentially ride a mountain bike. Schedule nature, art and lessons into week along with chores/culling/selling to relieve burden.\
\
Doing service for others is a Stoic ideal. It not only helps us fulfill our duty, but also makes us grateful for what we have. Use the space below to reflect on how using your skills and virtue in service of the common good helps you to cultivate gratitude for what you\'92ve got.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Be in service to boss & team at work\
stick with it with positivity through change to new process & new building move\
By extension maintain income to serve family & duty to provide.\
look into seven hill reserve community groups for working bees etc to preserve the nature reserve.\
Long term may be able to help with housing crisis by going back to subdivision work.\
Refrain from consumption (buying toys) and sell/donate stuff that others may be able to use.\
Reduce waste, and impact on others\
Check in with friends & family more often, take greater interest in wellbeing of others.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Gratitude and serenity are linked for the Stoics. If we adopt an attitude of gratitude, we will naturally feel more content. Use the space below to reflect on how feeling grateful affects your outlook on life.\
Reinforces correct decisions/actions made in the past knowingly or not and what led to them reinforces that there does not need to be a beneficial connection to the decisions/actions to have benefited as it can't and does not have to be be obvious before doing it. Experience or discipline is the benefit in itself as the rewards are often enjoyed much later. The outlook on life is present in the moment to forgo my long-term task for the day to serve the virtue in that moment despite who it serves. Gratitude will make my attitude less cynical making me more serene, comforted the knowledge that I won\'92t be scammed. Let go of the \'93cynical protection blanket\'92.\
\
Marcus Aurelius believed that daily reflection on one\'92s progress toward a more virtuous life was essential. How can you incorporate reflection into your daily Stoic habits?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Morning mood check + how it may impact day\
Journal - how was I wise, brave, tenacious, just.\
Did I hit all four today. Did I fail in any\
Remember posters in prominent locations to start the day.\
Reminder in phone to reflect on mindfulness and whether I progressed any toward long term goals today.\
List out tasks for long term goals daily.\
Weekly reflect that one has been done for each long term goal per week.\
Nightly mood reflection did it change throughout the day, was it tested, how did I go, what could have been different.\
Reflect/shine on knowledge/interesting or funny thing that occurred that day.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
Reflecting is action.\
\
}