{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20560\viewh17360\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 8 - Accept your fate\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Stoics believed in accepting fate, but that didn\'92t mean falling victim to it. When something bad happened to you, they believed you could turn it into both an opportunity to improve your character and take a new direction. Look at a challenge that you have faced or are now facing. How can it serve your quest for a more virtuous life?\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f2\b \cf0 Stomach pain.
\f1\b0 \
\'d7 Opportunity to be more selective in the quality of food and appreciate them at reduced portions.\
\'d7 Pivot to a more appreciative of the opportunity of good health, and to not be a victim but to change my ways in response to my body, through restraint and discipline with attention & discernment. Prove that despite adversity I won\'92t be a spoilsport. Choose to practise what I preach regarding using positivity to overcome.
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Cleanthes wrote: \'93The willing are led by fate, the reluctant are dragged.\'94 What do you think he meant by that? How would accepting your fate (and not resisting it) lead you to a more peaceful life?\
Fate is like an obstruction to your plans. If you remain \'93willing\'94 then you adapt your plans to accept the fate and navigate through it as quickly/painlessly/opportunistically as possible to incorporate reality.\
If you refuse to accept and stick with your plan you harm yourself and others by not be brave enough to face reality. Fate is a guide to your destination and something it is a detour from the path planned but follow the new recalibrated path you devise for yourself. Recalibrating to accomodate virtues at every moment ensures the path is the correct path, reform yourself, reform the path.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
The Stoics believed that focus on having a long life detracts from our efforts to have a good one. What are you now doing to make sure you are making the most of every day in terms of your virtue? \
\
Changing how I choose to live.\
\'95  Choose to live more frugally\
\'95  Choose to accept challenges out of my comfort zone\
\'95  Choosing to seek knowledge especially when life presents it\
\'95  Keep doing plans, keep making tasks, keep failing and returning, look for small wins, progress, first steps. Can\'92t do to put my plans on hold in the moment. Be inspired by discipline in others, seek training in discipline and practice. Biggest challenge is to wealth \'91indifference\'92 to health & status as my wife and I have made the journey about these and often celebrate them in ourselves.\
\
\
How would your life change if you loved everything that happened to you, rather than resenting or bemoaning it? What would you need to do to make this shift? \
\
I still hold resentment for some things that have happened to me. For most things past I don\'92t bemoan them and find humour/curiosity in them. Not yet at the attitude of loving everything that happened to me or loving everything. Committing to love what will happen is to embrace Fate and I don\'92t think I am there yet. I am at the acceptance of past and am working on future happenings and will work on loving everything. Still very protective of my loved ones and maybe the example of love and maybe be generous. I do/will help me be more generous\'94 may not with it. Me loving everything may not sit well with my loved ones who may value exclusivity.\
\
\
How have you come to terms with the fact that life is temporary? What are some of the ways you can accept the natural process of aging with grace? \
\
Tackling things with humour especially my failings. By being less focused on the pleasures & pains of life and not being driven by them will mean I am less impacted and less of a burden on others as I age. Considering objects/ownership is temporary also will lessen the focus on accumulation & consumption. Pivot to accept aging as a Fate that shouldn\'92t dictate your actions but guide them. If everything belongs to nature then so do I. Aging is weathering, to de-stress and be more accepting of the weathering like branches bending with the wind in harmony with it.\
\
\
Because acceptance of death is part of acceptance of fate, express gratitude for your life. \
\
Grateful to be in the position I am. Grateful to not have been punished for past behaviours and how I learned from past mistakes with little suffering. Grateful I got the chance to share nature with my loved one and that I have parents that I trust and love to care for my kids at home. Grateful for today\'92s lesson in resilience (mosquitos) to be re-modeled with a visitor (kangaroo with Joey). Grateful that I have found someone and their patience to share it all with, and their patience. Grateful to have found this journal and that I have a path for further gratitude. Grateful that further journeying is possible.\
\
\
Each day is a gift\'85 What did you do today to appreciate the gift of another day? What will you do tomorrow if you are still this lucky? \
\
I practiced patience, resilience, restraint, took pause to appreciate. Connected with nature by journalling outside. Felt the breeze. Reached out to see how I can be of help. Checked in with old friends/family. Show appreciation not just feel it.\
\
\
}