{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2869
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19720\viewh22920\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 9 - Choose Serenity\
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Marcus Aurelius believed that building time into each day for reflection was essential for peace of mind. Do you give yourself time to reflect. What do you notice if you don\'92t.\
\
\pard\tx0\tx0\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If I don\'92t reflect I don\'92t appreciate my own achievements, it is like they never existed and put out of my mind. I am not reminded of why/what I do it all for. Yet feel also like I made done anything and am a waste with no direction or reason to be flourishing by using energy for nothing. Like leaving a light on. No gratitude leads to seeking gratification and indulging in excess, as a friendly distraction from the pointlessness that is not lasting or fulfilling and feels wrong or sick. Focus on the mundane compulsory tasks makes me feel resentful for being controlled by what is out of my control. I have no sense of duty or nobility for effort tied to a greater purpose. Fate is pushing me, I am not flowing with it..\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Seneca's 
\f1\i Of Peace of Mind
\f0\i0  is a response to his friend's request for advice. In the book, he asserts that peace of mind is the greatest goal to aspire toward. But how do you achieve it? One of the things that plagues people the most is inertia: the inability to change. Do you suffer from inertia? What are some of the things you need to do to break this cycle?\
checking if my actions are driven by externals\
\'d7 Mood check, pride check, entitlement check,\
mindfulness check, empathy check, bias\
check, protectionist check, goallessness\
check, tribal check, criticality check,\
counterpart check, traditionalist check,\
nostalgist check, identity check,\
preconcepted ideas check, conformist check,\
contradictistic check, trend check\
legacy check, 
\f2\b nationalist
\f0\b0  check,\
racist, ageist, sexist, ableist check,\
loyalist check, Faith check, reputationist check,\
perception check, fear of missing out check, fear of fucking up\
check, Fear of imperfection check.\
Asking you have allowed or unknowingly been influenced\
by in your life could have placed a rule that\
you instinctively follow that stops or affects\
your ability to change.\
\pard\tx0\tx0\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
Epictetus believed that we have everything we need to be peaceful and resilient inside us. Take an inventory of your inner resources. \
\
Inner ethos which I haven\'92t followed 100% until now is aligned with Stoic values. Do the right thing = Justice. Do it / Do it properly = Temperance. Into something new look it up = Wisdom. Treat it as a challenge = Courage. What inside can help me be more peaceful. Ability to restrain from: being funny, jumping in, smartarse comeback, self-admonishment, self-celebrate, regret, denial, self-limit, self-victimise. Ability to act on: observations, implementation,  opportunity, endurance.\
\
\
Our inner resources are like a toolbox. Which tools do you rely on the most? Which ones have you neglected reaching for an could develop most? \
\
Instead of relying on humour to diffuse a situation, have the courage to sit in the awkwardness and listen. Instead of preparing the next argument or talking point while listening give complete attention. Develop more curiosity as it creates a pause and reframe against an insult. That gets to the root cause of why they would be insulting you. Lets you view the moment from a different angle. If everything becomes a learning opportunity that creates wisdom & more opportunity. Could develop more opportunity. Could develop more endurance. Could develop more discretion. Could initiate tasks by motivation from virtues. Control choices, effort, attitude do best with what is within control - not guarantee success.\
\
\
Have you ever heard the expression \'93Don\'92t run from your problems\'94. How do you confront what\'92s difficult for you?\
\
Ask: \'93What\'92s the right thing to do right now. Then: \'93What would my best self do here. Then do the smallest, honest version of that. Discipline: is my job to act well as the outcome isn\'92t fully up to me. Act not on what will make me happy act thinking \'93what kind of person does this make me\'94 Motivation: from wanting to be honest, brave, fair & self-controlled. Visualise losing comfort, failing, or things going wrong to appreciate what I have. Reduce fear of hardship and realise I can handle difficulty. This often removes procrastination. Expect things to be hard, accept discomfort as proof I\'92m doing something worthwhile. Success is the effort trying sincerely, with integrity, didn\'92t avoid effort from \'93fear or laziness\'94.\
\
\
Other peoples\'92 opinions of us are not within our control. What can you do to worry less about what other people think of you? \
\
By being in the moment giving complete attention to the person & nature I can ebb and flow with the dynamic of the discussion giving it time to breathe and prevent escalation of irritations. If I am truly seeking justice then it is whenever the truth is not justice/fairness for myself so if the truth hurts it is a success and if detached from ego it won\'92t hurt. It is proof of flourishing in that I can improve from knowing it and flourishing improves our peace. If other peoples opinions are not true then it is interestingly to discover how they came to that opinion and if others adopt them not true opinions of you that too is a curiosity to examine what actions in your past may have contributed to this and is a big opportunity to examine a root cause of this consequence to improve.\
\
\
One clear way to forfeit our peace is to worry about things before they happen. How do you avoid catastrophizing and live in the present instead.  \
\
Snap out of catastrophizing daydreams before they take hold. Identify any daydreams and shut them down (either good or bad ones) as they are envy of a passion or fear of victimhood and both are indulgent and not reality. They are a distraction that uses energy and are the wrong kind of thought. To snap out of it \'93how is that relevant in the moment\'94 that will reveal that it is not contributing to what is required and will not bring happiness/peace. Returning to the moment, real action to address or support the 4 virtues will be a positive distraction from the boredom or anxiety that is causing the daydream. Buying lotto tickets and gambling in general is paying for a daydream about passion of wealth so should be eliminated.\
\
\
What desired outcomes can you begin to let go of today?\
\
Desired outcome = Let go of\
Win the lotto = Buying lotto tickets\
No bureaucracy = Reducing QA\
Perfect Boss = pushing Back\
Value for money = Getting $20k for SUV\
Being perfect son = Self-disappointment\
Respected by peers = Re-writing history\
Reaching masses = Creating for fame\
Perfect health = Worrying about aging\
Car racng career = V8 \
Impressing people = Fancy cars\
Being awarded = Acceptance speech daydream\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 What are you afraid will happen if you let go of external expectations? Is that fear rational?\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}- \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Afraid that people will be disappointed with me.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}- \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Afraid that my actions or lack of them will bring harm to people.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}- \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Afraid workmates will think I have given up on them and am disloyal.\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}- \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Afraid I will be irredeemably tarnished with a reputation that will impact loved ones now and for generations.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 - These fears are not judgements aligned with nature as fear is a destructive passion making it an irrational judgement.\
-  They are also of a future thing which is not present and in the moment meaning it is irrelevant to actions/decisions at this time.\
- By letting go of external expectations what will really happen is I will have more energy to put toward the virtuous action applicable in the moment.\
}